---
title: "Creation Log #003"
---

## Logs of the creation of bitesyzedtechdiary

### FINALLY FIX PROD!

This was not the first thing that happened today. I am hardly that skilled.
But it was perhaps the most exciting tech event of today.

The solution had been staring at me the entire time. The entire time.

### Troubleshooting steps

I did what every self respecting dev does. I read the
[source code.](https://github.com/github/pages-gem)

Ha ha.

No. I tried changing random things and blaming it all on GitHub. After all

> It worked on my machine!

I spun up containers left and right, locally and remotely, and made a bunch
of [other discoveries](#other-discoveries).

Eventually I realised that the same code and config were having different
results on my local and remote machines. The local didn't have broken
post urls, but the one on my server, did?

### The Solution

So I shut everything down. Cleared the cached builds in the `_site/`
directory and started a fresh container. Now that a fresh container on the
github-pages image was just as broken,
I suspected that it might just be to do with the version
of Jekyll that was being used.

And that was it.

It was right there the entire time. It had not even occured to me!
I had stared at the
[pages-gem's dependencies](https://rubygems.org/gems/github-pages#:~:text=%3D-,3.9.0,-jekyll%2Davatar)
on [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org) without having paid sufficient
attention to the versions.

This whole time I had been thinking maybe GitHub does something more!

But the only thing it does, is be outdated. Perhaps I was too harsh on them.

Hunting for Jekyll docs corresponding to `v3.9.0` I found the
[migration guide](https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll/blob/6855200ebda6c0e33f487da69e4e02ec3d8286b7/docs/_docs/upgrading/3-to-4.md)
and now it made sense. And so I
[fixed it alll](https://github.com/kevinnls/bitesyzedtechdiary/commit/7c74bb613d33621fd2c71dff29d8c62ad443e5b3)

### Other discoveries

#### Using `remote_theme` locally

Earlier I had complained about not being able to use `remote_theme` in my
local env because it was a GitHub feature. But I now know it's actually
just another gem, a Jekyll plugin called
[jekyll-remote-theme](https://rubygems.org/jekyll-remote-theme). Well that
has made my life easier.

Or so I thought. Even after installing the gem, it didn't work. I knew that
I ought to **tell** Jekyll to use `jekyll-remote-theme`. And that's what
the `plugins` key in `_config.yml` does.

WAIT! So if adding a gem's name to `plugins` enables it...

#### Fixing the RSS feed

```yaml
plugins:
  - jekyll-remote-theme
  - jekyll-feed
```

Tada! So now the feed is generated too!

Maybe this wasn't a GitHub thing either. When I ran local containers of
Jekyll I ran the [latest and greatest](https://hub.docker.com/layers/jekyll/jekyll/latest/images/sha256-1ead0631cb82fdbd5950a5eb5b4bfbec5e6e97bb234afc058072e3f32e537751)
(of the time) after all. And that was Jekyll version `4.2.0`. Wayyy ahead
of GitHub Pages' `3.9.0`

### SSH's Port Forwarding

never really made sense.

What was local, what was remote?
How is `ssh -L` even supposed to be used?

As always, for the answers, one should ask the man - `man ssh`. Something
I hadn't done before for forwarding, mostly because I never needed to.

> [`man ssh`](<https://linux.die.net/man/1/ssh#:~:text=Specifies%20that%20the%20given%20port%20on%20the%20local%20(client)%20host%20is%20to%20be%20forwarded%20to%20the%20given%20host%20and%20port%20on%20the%20remote%20side.>)
>
> ```
> -L [...]
> 	Specifies that connections to the given TCP port or Unix socket on
> 	the local (client) host are to be forwarded to the given host and port,
> 	or Unix socket, on the remote side.
> ```

Having read the manual, I understand that essentially the `ssh` process
listens on the locally forwarded port and forwards the request to whatever
remote. Local requests to said port are _forwarded_ to the remote!

So remote forwarding would be the exact opposite! Requests to a particular
port on the remote machine are being forwarded to a port on the local
machine. So **that's** why I had to use `-R` while fiddling with
[`adb`](https://developer.android.com/studio/command-line/adb)

### `git-clone` a tag

I decided I wanted the github-pages Docker image - _Alpine_ edition.
GitHub does not publish it on their container registry; and making the PR
to enable that was
[another yak to shave.]( {{site.baseurl}}/{% post_url 2022-02-09-argh-github-pages %}#yak-shaving )

So instead I decided to clone [the repo](https://github.com/github/pages-gem)
and build it on my machine. But I don't want the whole history. I just need
_one_ tag!

At first I did a shallow clone using [GitHub's cli](//cli.github.com)

```
gh repo clone github/pages-gem -- --depth=1
```

But I realised that doesn't give the tags, and I needed a tag. Hmm

```
# in pages-gem repo
git fetch --tags
```

Oh no, that's all of them. I don't want all of them

```
git tag -l | xargs git tag -d
```

Now I couldn't figure out how to disable it from fetching tags, so I just
deleted the repo. Trying to shave fewer yaks.

Then I got to thinking, what if I **cloned** just one tag? After some quick
googling, I found
[the solution](https://www.techiedelight.com/clone-specific-tag-with-git/#:~:text=It%20has%20%E2%80%93branch%20option%2C%20which%20can%20also%20take%20tags%20and%20detaches%20the%20HEAD%20at%20that%20commit%20in%20the%20resulting%20repository.)

```
gh repo clone github/pages-gem -- -b v221 --depth=1
```

`git-clone -b` could take a tag as an argument. Who knew?
