---
---

### EUREKA!

I had a very archimedes moment.

As I ended [Creation Log #001]({%post_url 2022-02-06-creation-log-#001%})
I was stuck. The theming did not work locally. And I had not been able to
figure out why. But under the influence of the shower, I realised I had
not imported the minima style in `assets/main.scss`!

> Creating the file and making the import should fix it!

I thought.

### !EUREKA

That did _not_ fix it. Not eureka.

### [github/pages-gem](//github.com/github/pages-gem)

Maybe I should just concede and use the GitHub Pages gem. But I still don't
have Ruby on my system, so the Docker image it is. Weird that they don't
publish the image. Let me fork and make my own- oh they do publish it
[ghcr.io/github/pages-gem](https://ghcr.io/github/pages-gem).

Guess I'll just pull- it was 1.08 GB?! Do they not build the alpine version??

I ended up digressing and trying to see if I could create a PR that built
alpine images along with the regular, but GitHub Actions to me are
waters murky still. **FOCUS!**

Oh. even with the github-pages image, there are no styles.

---

### `layout: home`

FINALLY! There was no layout defined. That was the real problem.
Settings a layout in the frontmatter of `index.md` started rendering
the styles! Hurray!

Eventually I decided to set a default value for all posts in `_config.yml`
and that made it much better.

### Dark theme

> A dark theme is always pleasing to the eyes.
>
> \- me, now.

I wanted one for BSTD, but I
knew [Minima](//github.com/jekyll/minima) did not have a dark theme in
the current latest stable release `v2.5.1`.

Nonetheless, I did a quick Google search and found
[this lovely article Tim Coobs,](https://blog.slowb.ro/dark-theme-for-minima-jekyll/)
who happens to be using dark skin Minima for the very blog it's posted on!

But of course copying that exactly over was not going to work. What works
locally doesn't work on Github. And, locally GitHub's abstractions are not
handled, even if I am using the [`github-pages` gem](//rubygems.org/gems/github-pages)
so I can't just use `remote_theme`.

In the end we have a bodged setup at
[`22b572d`](https://github.com/kevinnls/bitesyzedtechdiary/commit/22b572d935867740a829cd7efe59f4dc3750a7bd)

I also had to make a variety of changes to `_config.yml` to match Minima's
new data requirements.

### Submodule regret

But before that, at
[`ccadf0d`](https://github.com/kevinnls/bitesyzedtechdiary/commit/ccadf0dbd39313c1989b5f7156c1559f7de23cc5)
I had converted `_posts/` into a submodule. I _knew_ I had experimented
with this before, but could not remember my results and conclusion

Well, I know now. Submodules are registered at a _point_ in history. So
even if luckily GitHub resolves and renders the content comfortably, I keep
needing to commit on the gh-pages branch as well as the posts branch.

This is a facepalm moment.

### But at least

It works and I managed to write three posts. (So much for calling it a
diary)

---

In other news,

# I made an open source contribution!

### Context

Stalking around [blog.slowb.ro](//blog.slowb.ro), I discovered the author
listed the entire stack they were employing for their blog. Time to use the
pro-programmer move: stea- _cough_ observe and gain inpsiration.

Thus I discovered [Isso](https://posativ.org/isso/)!

> Isso is an informal, german abbreviation for “Ich schrei sonst!”,
> which can roughly be translated to “I’m yelling otherwise”.
> It usually ends the discussion without any further arguments.

Wanting to find one thing - one thing only - the databate is used, I opened
the documentation section. Found a typo. Skimmed through the rest of the
documentation, didn't reaaally find my answer. But the sample configuration
led me to believe it would be SQLite.

In retrospect, as I went go get the url, I see that it was on the homepage.
As well as the FAQ section. Both of which I had clearly overlooked.

### The bug

...was simple. An INI code block had a comment that wasn't actually a
comment because of a missing `;`

Quickly fixed it on the GitHub web interface, renamed the branch, opened a
PR.

The maintainer asked for clarity in the commit message. I shouldn't have
been lazy.

### The err

I did a shallow clone, as I usually do, and ammended the commit.

That was weird... I didn't create anything. Why did the output
list create mode? And zsh's gitstatus looked even weirder...
<b>1301 &uarr; 1 &darr;</b>?
That can't be right I told myself. But checking the logs I realised it was
because the branch was grafted and dismissively just force pushed.

That force push broke the branch's history and automatically closed the PR.

#TIL
